gpx2googlemaps - GPX to Google Maps converter
=============================================

Copyright (C) Tom Payne  2009, 2010


Introduction
------------

`gpx2googlemaps` is designed for making turnpoint maps for paragliding and
hang gliding competitions.  It reads a GPX file as input and generates a
turnpoint map using map tiles from [Google Maps](http://maps.google.com/).


Requirements
------------

`gpx2googlemaps` requires:

* [pycairo](http://www.cairographics.org/pycairo/)
* [ImageMagick](http://www.imagemagick.org/)

On Ubuntu systems the packages are called `python-cairo` and `imagemagick`
respectively.
	$ sudo apt-get install python-cairo imagemagick


Quick start
-----------

Given one or more GPX files containing waypoints, `gpx2googlemaps` will
produce a waypoint map called `map.png`.  For example:
	./gpx2googlemaps frutigen.gpx
This can take a long time the first time that you run the command since
`gpx2googlemaps` must download all the map tiles from Google.  These map tiles
are cached in a temporary directory (`/tmp/gpx2googlemaps` by default).


### Dealing with non-GPX formats

The input file must be in GPX format.  If you have a `.wpt` file it is
typically in either OziExplorer or CompeGPS format and you can use
[GPSBabel](http://www.gpsbabel.org) to convert it, for example:
	$ gpsbabel -i compegps -f filename.wpt -o gpx -F filename.gpx
or
	$ gpsbabel -i ozi -f filename.wpt -o gpx -F filename.gpx


### Specifying the zoom level

You can increase the zoom level with the `--zoom` option, for example:
	$ ./gpx2googlemaps --zoom=12 frutigen.gpx
Higher zoom levels generate larger maps with more detail which may or may not
be desirable.  Depending on the size of your flying area, zoom levels 11 to 13
usually give the best compromise between detail and size.

If you change the zoom level the turnpoint labels will be small relative to
the map features.  Use the `--label-scale` option to make them larger, e.g.
	$ ./gpx2googlemaps --zoom=12 --label-scale=1.5 frutigen.gpx


### Truncating waypoint names

Waypoint names can be very long and in paragliding competitions we tend to
only use the first three characters.  You can tell `gpx2googlemaps` to
truncate the waypoint names using the --truncate option, for example:
	$ ./gpx2googlemaps --truncate=3 frutigen.gpx


### Limiting the area covered by the map

By default, `gpx2googlemaps` will make the map large enough to include all the
waypoints in the input file.  If you have a number of distant waypoints (e.g.
remote goals) then you may wish to limit the map to a certain area.  You can
do this with the `--bounds` option, for example:
	$ ./gpx2googlemaps --bounds=F05,F07,F21,F22 frutigen.gpx
This will ensure that the map covers all the waypoints specified.

You can also specify coordinates explicitly as latitude:longitude pairs, for
example:
	$ ./gpx2googlemaps --bounds=46.5:7.5,46.7:7.7 frutigen.gpx


### Generating a map without waypoints

You can generate a map without any waypoints using the `--bounds` option on its
own, for example:
	$ ./gpx2googlemaps --bounds=46.5:7.5,46.7:7.7


### Changing the output file name

The default output filename is `map.png`, this can be overridden with the
`--output` option, for example:
	$ ./gpx2googlemaps --output=frutigen.png frutigen.gpx


Known bugs
----------

If two waypoints are close together then their labels can overlap.


Caveats
-------

The Google Map tiles are Copyright (C) Google and others.  I am not a lawyer
but if you distribute maps generated by gpx2googlemaps you are likely
infringing copyright and are on dubious legal ground.

Map makers include deliberate errors in their maps as a way of spotting
copies.  Google are no exception.


License
-------

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
